add TypeScript typings + programatic [WIP] (#921)
strapi/documentation: docs/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/typescript.md

> ## Understand TypeScript support

Author: > I may be a bit late with that documentation but I'm not sure `typescript.md` is currently at the right place in the TOC 🤔 It's treated as an installation guide but that documentation isn't an installation guide. Maybe it should be in the configurations (with a link to that doc in the CLI installation guide where we mention TypeScript, explicitly saying something like "more information about TypeScript in the dedicated documentation"). Although I'm aware this doc is not 100% configuration. What do you think?

It is on the same level as the file structure and configuration documents. I don't think that is treating it as an installation guide. There isn't a great place for it, because of the way our documentation is structured. I am in favor of moving it anywhere where it is easier to find. This is the most requested feature from users, it shouldn't be hard to find the documentation.

> ## Understand TypeScript support

Reviewer: <img width="221" alt="Screenshot 2022-06-08 at 10 05 17" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19183360/172565074-a925c0f3-c088-4c68-a3b8-373c9171cd1f.png">

^ This is what I mean when I say it's "treated as an installation guide in the TOC". But then it's not listed in the introduction of the installation guides, and in the CLI guides there's no link to the TypeScript doc.
And again, it's a mix of installation instructions, concept explanations and configuration/customisation, which indeed makes it hard for that piece of documentation to fit perfectly anywhere but that is precisely the issue. That's why I'm pointing that it's rather confusing.
Now I'm aware it might be too late to change the whole documentation, but we could at least try to find the best place in the TOC, and make sure it's indeed easy for users to find it (hence the links in relevant docs, to increase easy access to the TypeScript doc).

> TypeScript-enabled Strapi applications have a `dist` directory at the project root, a `./dist/build/` subdirectory that contains the compiled admin panel, and 2 `tsconfig.json` files (see [project structure](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/file-structure.md)).

Reviewer 2: I probably missed that with the first review, sorry 😅 :
I think we could simplify/update this sentence as it mostly repeats what's in the table. 
```suggestion
TypeScript-enabled Strapi applications have a specific [project structure](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/file-structure.md)) with the following dedicated folders and configuration files:
```

Author: agree.

</code-group>

## Use TypeScript typings

> Strapi provides typings on the Strapi class to improve the TypeScript experience. In the following example a `register` method is added to `./src/index.ts`. For example, when the `strapi.runLifecyclesFunctions` method is added, a list of available lifecycle types (`register`, `bootstrap` and `destroy`) are returned by the code editor. The following example is illustrated statically and the second tab shows an animated example.

Reviewer 2: _(Roughly copying, pasting, and adapting a bit what I already mentioned on Slack, for the record :-) )_

After second thought, I don't think the GIF is a big issue after all (except for accessibility issues, see below). Maybe we could try to slow it down a bit (if doable) since it can't be paused like a video would.

However, with my limited understanding of TypeScript so far 😅  I'm just wondering:
Are this GIF/static example showing typings or rather autocomplete?

I guess the IDE shows the available methods because we specified that `strapi` is an instance of the Strapi class — i.e. the `strapi` parameter is of type `Strapi` (`strapi: Strapi`), right? (and this is where TypeScript typings matter). We could probably go a bit deeper into the explanations 🤔 
If @Convly or some dev could have some time to explain, I'd love to read/hear more info about the topic 🙂 

However, my suggestion would be that, if we are indeed focusing more on autocomplete around typings, it would probably be best to convert the "static example" to a procedure. This way we describe what people will really experience. This also alleviates accessibility issues (people using screen readers will still have the GIF somewhat described by the picture)

Something like:
1. In the register method, declare the strapi argument as of type Strapi
2. Type strapi. and use keyboard arrows to browse the available interfaces.
3. Choose runLifecyclesfunctions  from the list.
4. Within the function arguments, choose one of the available functions (e.g. register, boostrap…)
Missing some steps and needs to be proofread/copyedited but you get the idea 🙂 

What do you think?

:::: tabs card

::: tab STATIC EXAMPLE

```ts
// path: ./src/index.ts

import '@strapi/strapi';

export default {

  register( {strapi }: { strapi: Strapi }) {
    strapi.runLifecyclesFunctions('register') .then(()  => console.log('hello world')
    )
    
  },
};
```

:::

::: tab ANIMATED GIF

![Animated gif demonstrating TypeScript typings](./TypeScript-typing.gif)

> :::

Author: I added the gif as an example because it was requested multiple times by the @Convly  and @marcoautiero. We are having an active conversation about how to best communicate typings. As far as I am aware there are multiple tabs tables throughout the documentation with code examples, which is exactly what this is.

> :::

Reviewer 2: > As far as I am aware there are multiple tabs tables throughout the documentation with code examples, which is exactly what this is.

This is not true, Shaun. Tabs are used when we have several options for the same context, but each tab with a different purpose, _and_ it would be too long to have the same content stacked up from top to bottom. The [relations](https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/development/backend-customization/models.html#relations) subsection is a good example of the usage of tabs, for instance.
VuePress code groups are what we use for various examples of codes all having the same purpose. 
But we have zero examples of tabs used like here. The Quick Start Guide is the only place that features GIFs because it actually is a tutorial. And even in this case, the GIF is above or below the content, allowing the reader to see both versions (text and image) and choose what they want to see, or even follow both simultaneously.

::: note
It is not necessary to repeat the `yarn install` or `npm run install` command after the initial installation. The `yarn build` or `npm run build` command is necessary to implement any plugin development that affects the admin panel.
:::

> ## Start Strapi programmatically

Reviewer: I'm having a hard time understanding that whole section to be honest 🤔  I think we have several structural issues here. Let's discuss it together, also with @pwizla who also added quite a few comments on that section.

Instantiating Strapi programmatically in a Typescript project requires additional configurations to load everything correctly. The primary difference for TypeScript programatic use is that the codebase and compiled code are stored in separate directories, whereas the same directory is used to read and write in native JavaScript.

### Understand programatic use

> When instantiating Strapi programmatically using the default export of `@strapi/strapi`, different parameters such as the `app` directory and the `dist` directory can be passed. The `app` directory is the project root directory and `dist` is a subdirectory of `app`. The `dist` directory represents the compiled project, with the same directory structure as the `app` directory, and the `app` directory represents the codebase (TypeScript or JavaScript). The main differences are:

Reviewer 2: This section (lines 135-139) looks a bit heavy IMHO.

What do you think about simplifying the presentation to make it easier to digest the content?

I'd use a table, for instance with 2 columns at least: parameter name (`app` or `dist`), and description. 
Maybe the description could be separated into 2 columns, like target directory and description/explanations.

If mentioning the `develop`-thingy is important (line 139), it could be included in a caution callout for instance.

What do you think?

- When using the Content-type Builder to create, update, delete content types (or any other service that creates files), Strapi uses the `app` folder to write the files.
- When reading what content types exist on the system Strapi reads the `dist` folder.

> - When the `develop` command is used only the `app` directory is watched. In TypeScript, a compilation will be triggered when a change is detected in the `app` directory & the output will be written to the `dist` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When the `develop` command is used only the `app` directory is watched. In TypeScript, a compilation will be triggered when a change is detected in the `app` directory and the output will be written to the `dist` directory.
```

::: note
The public folder is considered static and thus ignores the  `app` and `dist` directories.
:::

The default values for the `app` and `dist` directories are transformed and assigned using one of the following options:

```js

const resolveWorkingDirectories = opts => {
  const cwd = process.cwd(); // Neither the appDir or distDir are passed. Both the appDir and distDir are set to process.cwd().

  const appDir = opts.appDir ? path.resolve(cwd, opts.appDir) : cwd; // Only appDir is defined distDir matches appDir.
  
  const distDir = opts.distDir ? path.resolve(cwd, opts.distDir) : appDir; // Only distDir is defined, appDir is set to process.cwd().

  return { appDir, distDir };
}

```

For example, if the compiled code is stored in a separate directory (eg: when using TypeScript)  Strapi should be instantiated with a specific `distDir` value which matches the path of your build directory.

::: caution
Do not set the `appDir` to the `build` or `dist` directory as it could cause issues when the app tries to write some files.
:::

> ### Start Strapi programmatically examples

Reviewer 2: Something feels weird to me with this title… (inconsistent format, etc.)

Start Strapi for JavaScript applications:

```js
const strapi = require('@strapi/strapi');

strapi();
// appDir => process.cwd() | distDir => process.cwd()

```

Start Strapi using a custom `dist` directory:

```js
const strapi = require('@strapi/strapi');

strapi({ distDir: './dist' });
// appDir => process.cwd() | distDir => './dist'
```

Start Strapi using custom `app` and `dist` directories:

```js

const strapi = require('@strapi/strapi');

strapi({ distDir: './dist' });
// appDir => process.cwd() | distDir => './dist'

```

Start Strapi using a custom `app` directory:

```js

const strapi = require('@strapi/strapi');

strapi({ appDir: './app' });
// appDir => './app' | distDir => './app'

```

### Use both JavaScript and TypeScript codebases when starting Strapi programmatically

> Adding the package `@strapi/typescript-utils` allows for both JavaScript and TypeScript codebases to be used programatically. A common use is for creating command line interface tools or developing a plugin. Examples of how to incorporate both code bases:

Reviewer 2: Please rephrase the "Examples of…" (should be a sentence)
